_guides/contribute-to-omnis-libraries.md, before:

---
title: Contribute to Omnis libraries
---

# Fork repository
To contributo a library you have to fork its repository. This means that a copy of the repository is made to your github account. This forked repository is link to the orginal one. This way it is possible to merge any changes made in te forked one with a pull-request (explained below).

Follow the steps below to fork a repository
1. Go to the library to be forked
1. Click on the button 'Fork' (image)

# Clone forked repository
Now the forked library has to be cloned locally to get the (JSON) source on the computer. Follow the steps below to do this with the GitHub desktop client.

1. step 1
1. step 2
1. step 3
1. ...

# Import Library into Omnis
Now the fork repository is cloned on the computer it is possible to create a library from the source in Omnis Studio. Take following the steps to do this.
1. step 1
1. step 2
1. step 3
1. ...

# Update forked repository
After the change in the library are made they have to be added and uploaded (pushed) to the forked repository.

## Update JSON tree
Click in Omnis Studio the option 'Update JSON tree'. This will export the changed Omnis code to JSON.

## Commit and push to forked repository
Use the GitHub app to commit and push the changes to the fork repository with the steps below

1.
1.
1.
1. ....

# Create pull-request
Finnally a pull-request has to be made in order to notify the owner of the original repository that you have made changes to the library and want to contribute this to his repository. The steps below describes how the pull-request can be created

1.
1.
1.
1. ...

Commit message:

Added rough steps links and images still to added and review for the pull request needed

_guides/contribute-to-omnis-libraries.md, after:

---
title: Contribute to Omnis libraries
---

# Prerequisites
* Omnis Studio 8.1 or later
* GitHub Client

# Fork repository
To contributo a library you have to fork its repository. This means that a copy of the repository is made to your github account. This forked repository is link to the orginal one. This way it is possible to merge any changes made in te forked one with a pull-request (explained below).

Follow the steps below to fork a repository
1. Go to the library to be forked.
1. Click on the button 'Fork' (image).

# Clone forked repository
Now the forked library has to be cloned locally to get the (JSON) source on the computer. Follow the steps below to do this with the GitHub desktop client.

1. Click on the green button 'Clone / Download'. (image)
1. A popup appears. Click on the clipboard button to copy the link to the repository.
1. Open the GitHub app and click on the button 'Clone a Repository'.
1. Click on the tab 'URL' and past the link in the field 'URL or username/repository'.
1. Choose a path where the local repository has to be cloned to.
1. Click on 'Clone'. 

# Import Library into Omnis
Now the fork repository is cloned on the computer it is possible to create a library from the source in Omnis Studio. Take following the steps to do this.
1. Open Omnis Studio.
1. Click in the Studio browser on 'New Lib From JSON'.
1. Click on the '...' button next to 'JSON Tree Path'.
1. Goto the folder in the repository where the file library.json resides and click on 'Choose'.
1. Click on the '...' button next to 'Library Folder' and choose a folder where the Library has to be created.
1. Click on 'Import...'. If there are any errors occuring check the [Troubleshooting](#Troubleshooting) section below for more information.

# Update forked repository
After the change in the library are made they have to be added and uploaded (pushed) to the forked repository.

## Update JSON tree
Click in Omnis Studio the option 'Update JSON tree'. This will export the changed Omnis code to JSON.

## Commit and push to forked repository
Use the GitHub app to commit and push the changes to the fork repository with the steps below

1. Open the forked repository in the GitHub app
1. Review your changes and enter a summary and a description and click 'Commit to master'.
1. Click on 'Push to origin' to upload the changes to repository on GitHub

# Create pull-request
Finnally a pull-request has to be made in order to notify the owner of the original repository that you have made changes to the library and want to contribute this to his repository. The steps below describes how the pull-request can be created

1. In the GitHub app click on 'create Pull-request'
1. Enter a descripton for the pull-request
1. And click 'create Pull-request'
1. ...

#  Troubleshooting
## Errors at importing / exporting libraries
One of the erros that can occur is that the library to be exported / imported is depended to an other library. This can be solved to open/import the other library in Omnis Studio.
